# Image analysis workflow

Image analysis scripts used in the manuscript 'Single-cell sequencing of the human midbrain reveals glial activation and a neuronal state specific to Parkinson's disease'. In this study, we analyzed microscopy images of two midbrain tissues. The tissues were stained for neuronal and dopaminergic markers, Cadps2 and glial cells (oligodendrocytes, astrocyes and microglia). The analysis is done in three steps.

## General workflow

The 'OligoAstroMicroAnalysis.m' is used to extract fluorescent cell objects (oligodendrocytes-PLP1, astrocytes-GFAP, microglia-IBA1) according to the intensity and area size. Moreover, for the microglia ramification, we use the 'MicrogliaRamificationAnalysis.m' which extracts the fluorescent microglia cell objects (microglia-IBA1) according to the intensity and area size. On each object, skeleton of the IBA1 mask is generated with a thinning function to identify the branching of the object areas (area of cell soma and area of processes).

The 'Neuron_seg_log.m' uses the function 'ImageAnalysis_Neuron_seg.m' to segment the neurons in the images. First, the raw chanels are convolved with a Gaussian filter, and the neuron areas are generated according to the intensity and area size. Further, to remove the neurites attached, we apply a watershed segmentation and disociate small connected components. Then, the neuromelanin area is computed by identifying low intensity objects in brightfield, and filtering by size. The raw 'CADPS2' intensity is finally measured in neuron areas of interest (MAP2 areas for all neurons, and MAP2+/TH+/NM+ and MAP2+/TH-/NM+ areas generated by subtracting and adding the respective individual mask areas).

